# The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)

Imagine if you brought up your website today and said, _"I need to make sure people with disabilities can use this"_. Or _"How do I know if my website is accessible?"_ One way to know is to evaluate your website against a set of standards or measurable criteria. And the standards for measuring accessibility on the Web are the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (or WCAG).

## What is WCAG?

WCAG is an abbreviation for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. It is often pronounced “wuh-cag”, or “double-u cag”.

WCAG is a standard developed by the [Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/) of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Just like the W3C helps develop standards for HTML and CSS, they also develop specifications for accessibility standards.

WCAG is the standard that defines how to make Web content _more accessible_ to people with disabilities. It defines a baseline set of guidelines that digital content must meet in order to provide **minimum levels of accessibility**. If web content doesn’t meet these levels, it is not considered accessible.

WCAG enables all organizations to measure the accessibility of content, sites, and apps against documented **success criteria** (which we will talk about in a few minutes). Following WCAG means your business is complying with just about any federal, state, or local law about accessibility for people with disabilities. As such, it is an important asset for businesses, organizations, and other entities who want to make their Web content accessible to more people.

WCAG includes **guidelines relevant to design, content and code**. So it benefits everyone on your production team to be familiar with them.

## WCAG Versions

Like any Web standard, WCAG has evolved over the last few decades to become more universal and inclusive. And much like other Web standards, several versions of WCAG have been published over the years. You will probably come across more than one version of WCAG referenced in different projects and even in laws, so it helps to understand the difference as well as the relationship between these versions.

### WCAG 1.0

The first ever version of WCAG was WCAG 1.0. [WCAG 1.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/) was published in May 1999 and was focused mainly on HTML. It was a great step into making Web content accessible. It contained 14 guidelines.

As technology advanced, WCAG did too. And almost a decade later, WCAG 2.0 was released.

### WCAG 2.0

[WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) was published in December 2008. In order to account and accommodate for a wider range of technologies, WCAG 2.0 introduced the four guiding principles of accessibility, stating content must be **Perceivable, Operable, Understandable**, and **Robust**, referred to as _POUR_. These principles are supported by **guidelines** that guide developers to make all digital content accessible as opposed to only addressing content implemented using HTML—that includes content in a PDF or a text document like Word or a Google Doc or a spreadsheet, or a presentation, or an eBook, or a native mobile app. The guidelines themselves are supported by **success criteria** for meeting those guidelines.

WCAG 2.0 reigned as the gold standard for a long time.

### WCAG 2.1

In June 2018, almost a decade later, [WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) was published as an official recommendation. While WCAG 2.0 was almost a complete overhaul of WCAG 1.0, WCAG 2.1 builds on and extends WCAG 2.0. It uses the same terminology used in version 2.0. So **WCAG 2.1 is backwards-compatible, which means if you conform to WCAG 2.1, you automatically conform to WCAG 2.0** And if you are required by law to conform with WCAG 2.0, you will be able to update your content accessibility to WCAG 2.1 without losing conformance with WCAG 2.0.

Both WCAG 2.0 and 2.1 are [referenced in laws and regulations](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/) around the world today.

### WCAG 2.2

On October 5th, 2023, [WCAG 2.2](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/), an extension of the existing WCAG 2.1 standards, was published as an official recommendation.

The dot releases are very focused on filling known gaps that have developed over the years since the adoption of WCAG 2.0 as the standard for web accessibility, but a complete overhaul of these standards will ultimately be necessary.

### WCAG 3 (Silver)

In parallel with WCAG 2.2, a task force was formed to create an entirely new set of standards for Web accessibility, which will result in another major version of the accessibility guidelines that will change the terminology as well as the structure of WCAG as we know it. This new set of guidelines will be called **“W3C Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 3.0”** —code named **[“Silver”](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/task-forces/silver/work-statement)**.

The removal of "web" in the name is meant to reflect the intention that these criteria can ultimately be applied to more than just web content. They are meant to address more types of disabilities, and tackle the accessibility of web content on desktops, laptops, tablets, mobile devices, wearable devices, and other Web of Things devices.

[WCAG 3](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag-3.0/) is currently an incomplete working draft. It is intended to develop into a W3C Standard in a few years.

We will be using WCAG 2.1 as our main reference for accessibility requirements that we’ll be discussing in many chapters of this course, but we’ll also mention some of the new criteria introduced in 2.2 where they are relevant.

---

WCAG is a tool that is meant to help us create more accessible products. And it does so by introducing principles and guidelines that define what Web content needs to be to be considered accessible.

WCAG 2.1 has **13 guidelines** that are organized under **4 principles**. For each guideline, there are **testable success criteria**, which are at **three conformance levels**: A, AA, and AAA.

Let’s elaborate on what all of this means.

## The four principles underlying WCAG (P.O.U.R)

The Web content accessibility guidelines are set around 4 fundamental design principles:

- that Web content must be **Perceivable**,
- that UI controls must be **Operable**,
- that content and controls must be **Understandable**, and
- that content must be **Robust**.

These are often referred to by the acronym “P.O.U.R”.

- **Perceivable** means that users must be able to perceive Web content in some way, using one or more of their senses (it can’t be invisible to all of their senses)
- **Operable** means that users must be able to control UI elements (e.g. buttons must be activated in some way — mouse, keyboard, voice command, etc.). The user interface cannot require interaction that a user cannot perform.
- **Understandable** means that the content must be understandable to its users.
- **Robust** means that the content must be developed using well-adopted web standards that will work across different browsers, now and in the future.

By focusing on principles, not technology, the guidelines **emphasize the need to think about the various ways that people interact with content.**

We mentioned in the previous chapter that people may have various kinds of disabilities, and that they may access the Web using a variety of available assistive technologies. So the principles and guidelines outlined in WCAG **try to be** inclusive of as many people with disabilities as possible, regardless of ability or circumstance; this includes users with impairments to their: **vision, hearing, mobility, speaking, or cognition (thinking and understanding).**

These 4 principles apply to all aspects of your service—including design, code, content and interactions, which means all members of your team should be familiar with them to create better products. And the guidelines apply to mobile content, too.
