# Does satisfying WCAG criteria guarantee that your website is usable?

It is a very common misconception that if you meet all of the WCAG success criteria then your content will work for everyone. But the truth is that that’s not always true. And it’s important to understand _why_ **WCAG conformance is not enough**, so that you can always look beyond legal requirements, to create products that do work for people.

WCAG conformance is often not enough. It does not guarantee that everyone with a disability will be able to use what you design and build. For many reasons…

## Conformance does not guarantee usability

For example, say your legal requirement is to meet WCAG 2.1 Level AA, then you may pass the legal compliance levels by meeting all of the the WCAG 2.1 Level AA criteria; **but meeting these criteria does not mean that there are no more barriers to access your content.**

WCAG 2.1 Level AA includes 20 success criteria that address various accessibility barriers. Many other accessibility barriers are addressed in WCAG Level AAA criteria as well as in WCAG 2.2 criteria. Your content may include some or many of these barriers but still be considered “accessible” because it passes the Level AA conformance requirements.

Your content may contain a lot of abbreviations, for example, or may include language that is difficult to understand for many people. You may be technically conformant to WCAG Level AA requirements, but your content would still be unusable for many people.

## WCAG guidelines don’t address all accessibility issues

Even if your content meets all of the WCAG criteria — including WCAG 2.1 Level AAA criteria, your content or service may still be excluding some people with disabilities.

> **even content that conforms at the highest level (AAA) will not be accessible to individuals with all types, degrees, or combinations of disability, particularly in the cognitive language and learning areas.**

WCAG tackles specific issues as they come up, but the guidelines don’t tackle all possible accessibility barriers. So even if you technically satisfy all the criteria, your website, application, or service may have usability and accessibility issues that are simply not addressed in the guidelines.

## WCAG does not tackle usability issues
